[MUSIC]
We have seen how to solve bin
packing when item sizes are small.
Small as in there's an upper bound on the
maximum size relative to the bin capacity.
Now, let us look at the opposite case.
When items sizes are large, that is,
when there's a lower bound
on the minimum item size.
This is still a fairly hard problem.
In fact, it is kind of a head scratcher.
So how do we solve this?
It's still too hard for
us to solve right away in one shot so
we go to a special, special case.
At this point, you should be used to this.
Special, special case,
large items, few distinct sizes.
All items are large, and
all item sizes are drawn from a small set,
a set of small commonality.
In this section,
we get to solve this problem.
How do we go about it?
You know how to do this.
There's a technique for this to design
algorithms for this kind of situation.
First we try an example.
Then we gain some intuition from solving
this example, and we derive a solution for
the general setting of large items and
few distinct sizes.
So, let's take an example.
Consider this.
Bin capacity 12,
item sizes, 3 and 4.
What is our input?
Let's say that we have 10 items of size 3,
10 items of size 4 10 of size 3,
10 of size 4, we want to pack
them in bins of capacity 12.
How convenient,
12 is 3 times 4, is 4 times 3.
How very convenient.
Look at this.
Consider this example, think about it,
and a solution emerges.
Naturally.
How?
Well we have ten items of size three.
But four items of size three fill
exactly a bin exactly to capacity.
So let's have two bins with four
items of size three in each of them.
We have two items left over.
Then take the items of size four.
Three of them fit a bin exactly.
So let's have three bins like
that using up nine of our items.
What is left over?
What's left over are, two items of
size three, one item of size four.
Three plus, three plus, four is ten.
The left over items fit
in one additional bin.
That's our solution.
Two bins filled with four
items of size three each.
Three bins filled with three
items of size four in each, and
one bin with the leftover items.
Total, six bins.
A little thought reveals
this has to be optimal.
So what is the idea?
What idea did we use for this?
The idea we used is that there
are not that many ways to fill a bin.
When items are large, you
cannot put that many items in the bin, and
there are only so many different bins.
Let's call those configurations.
We have a few possible configurations.
We can have bins that contain
items of size four only.
Three of them, or two of them, or
just one of them that I didn't draw.
Or we can have bins that contain
items of size three only.
Four of them, or three of them,
or two of them, or one of them.
Or we can have a bin
that contains a mixture.
It could contain two items of
size four and one of size three,
two items of size three and
one of size four, or one of each.
And that's it,
these are all the bin types.
These are the only
possible configurations.
So what does this suggest in general?
Whenever we have large items and
few distinct item sizes,
let us define C As the set of
all possible bin configurations.
In configuration C, let us look at how
may times we have a slot of size s.
Let's call this a sub s,c.
For example, here, for
this configuration C a sub 3c equals 1.
There's one possibility for
an item of size three and a 4c equals 2.
There at two slots of size
4 in this configuration.
All right, then what?
Now we are going towards something that
you probably guessed, an integer program.
Integer program.
So we have our set of sizes
that has constant cardinality.
The input gives us
the number items of size s.
Let's call it n sub s.
The output chooses among
the set of configurations
how many bins we have
in each configuration.
Let x sub c denote the number of bins that
are filled according to configuration c.
That's a variable.
These are the variables
of our integer program.
And what are the constraints?
The constraints are that
everything must fit.
Everything must fit in somewhere.
In other words if we look at the items
of size s how many do we have?
N sub s of m.
There have to be enough slots for
all of them.
How many slots do we have for
items of size s?
Sum over c over all
configurations of x sub c,
the number of bins in
configuration c times a sub s,
c, the number of slots in that
configuration for items of size s.
That has to be large enough to
fit all the items of size s.
That's our constraints.
And finally, what is the objective
of the integer program?
We want to minimize the number of bins,
that is sum over c of x sub c.
Of course, x sub c must be an integer.
That's the integer program for
bin packing when all items are large and
there are only a few distinct item sizes.
So what do we do with this?
We have to figure out how
many configurations we have.
Easy, not that many.
If every item size is at least 10% of
the bin capacity then obviously,
we can fit at most nine items per bin.
Each configuration has at most nine items.
And, if we have less than,
say, 10 different sizes,
then how many configurations do we have?
At most, 10^10.
So what do we do?
10^10 is, 10 is a constant, 10.
10% of capacity.
Ten is another constant.
The number of distinct sizes.
Okay, here it so happened that these
two parameters are both equal to 10,
but that's a coincidence.
In general, this size is at minimum
some alpha times the bin capacity and
the number sizes is at
most some k equals O of 1.
All right, at most 10^10 configurations.
So we can solve the LP relaxation
that has a number of constraints
equal to the number of sizes, ten.
A number of variables equal to
the number of configurations, 10^10.
10^10 is a constant.
It's a O of 1.
That's the beauty of theory.
And once we have solved this, we can round
up to the nearest integer each variable.
This adds at most plus 1 per variable,
plus 10^10.
So, the output gives us
a weight of pack items
with a number of bins at most
equal to opt plus 10^10.
Almost optimal.
Or, let's say you don't like 10^10, you
want something that is exactly optimal.
You can do it.
How?
Exhaustive search.
Easy, look at all possibilities.
You know that for each continuation c,
the number of bins in
consideration c is at most n.
Why?
Because you only have n items to pack.
So even if you put one in each bin,
that's at most n bins.
So the total number of collections of
configurations of conceivable solutions
is at most N + 1,
all possibilities 0 through n,
to the probability of c,
number of considerations, to the 10^10.
For each such considerable
possibility you can check whether for
every size S, things fit.
You have enough slots to fit
all the items of size s, and
then output the solution
with the min number of bins.
That's exhaustive search.
It gives you the exact optimal solution.
And the runtime is at most size of S,
number of distant sizes,
times n to the size of S to the 10.
That's polynomial time.
Of course it's kind of big.
And it's possible to do much better
than this using linear programming, but
still, it's polynomial time.
So in this section we have seen how
to solve the problem exactly, or
near-optimally when all
the items are large and
there are few distinct item sizes.
Next we work on removing the assumption
that there are few distinct sizes.